about whether morality is based on
morality being because of luck yeah this
idea with psychological problems
substance abuse disorders are wrapped up
anyway
yeah ultimately I have a hard time
saying to these people that it's your
fault because whatever conditions they
were raised in or whoever they got
involved with led to these substance
abuse problems I don't think it's a you
know many of these personality disorders
like your father's I mean I don't know
if it's beneficial to say it's your
fault or but you ask is it beneficial to
say this is your fault before we were
asking the question is is it beneficial
to say this is not your fault I just say
to someone who has depression everyone
is spoken to a psychiatrist it's not you
it's your brain chemistry that's that's
the standard excusing they hand out the
SSRI drugs they hand up the meds get you
doped up don't worry it's not well the
opposite is say it's you it's nobody
else but you like ultimately this
question if you're gonna be you know sad
or happy it comes anyway if you're gonna
be honest or dishonest if you're gonna
be a kleptomaniac or a lot but I said
it's on you in the past people assumed
when Koreans learn English they speak
with a Korean accent for genetic reasons
you can see how like from a naive
perspective that seems like a reasonable
assumption right okay so you're Korean
but you still speak English with his
accents and your kids also speak English
for the Korean accent so it seems
genetic that there were psychological
and language language motor issues and
ultimately tongue movement issues or
something that are based India easy leap
of efforts to make scientifically
totally false it's been totally
disproved there was a ton of research
done in this right and it is that makes
sense
like as an influence it seems logical
right so you see to me this is this is
parallel where you have
kind of complex behavioral problem that
it's similar to speaking with an accent
right it's something to perform at
something behave it's ultimately an
attention-getting disorder right why do
you act depressed but large parts get
attention to people you know why do you
try to look beautiful and they even
believe it was there are social elements
to this in terms of being perceived in
things man
it's not it's not it's not even as
simple as a phobia or it's just a
feeling that rises up in you it's
something you're exhibiting and
performing for other people and so on
right it means it seems to be a little
bit too easy it seems to me facile just
with the accident to link to sorry to
leap to the inference this has a
physiological basis like the shape of
the tongue or the mouth that's easy to
assume Korean people look different the
shape of their mouth looks different so
it's easy to think oh they have a Korean
accent because of the shape of the mouth
completely false right scientifically
it's been disproved it's easy to leap to
the assumption this person has PTSD has
certain kinds of cowardly behaviors to
be blunt
this person has certain kinds of
depressed behaviors therefore there's a
camp biochemical basis physiological
basis or genetic basis to me that's
that's easy to lead to but precisely
because it's so easy after trying to
challenging why can't be measured right
so my opening salvo was to say
narcissistic personality disorder is a
type of behavior it's a type of
character it's like a pattern of
behaviors a type of person but is it a
disease no and thus is there a cure or
is there even treatment no is there a
you know biochemical disorder or
physiological basis
no but it's a pattern of behavior linked
to a type of character so I just got a
bit of an interesting question from
Mohammed who's sitting here in the same
room with me not not sending me a
message on patreon or her on the Twitter
or something um talking about different
psychological conditions people in my
life have or have been diagnosed with
and to what extent it's really useful to
talk in terms of psychological diagnosis
at all and Mohamed asked do you think
this is an actual sickness do you think
this is an actual disease we're talking
about
all right away in a sense of course it's
not a sickness because there's no cure
right it's tragic but like okay we have
here a description of a type of person a
description of a type of character or
even you could just say a stereo tonight
but of course it's not in this sense
terms of so he has a background in
biochemistry and you know biology has
applied to medicine this could never
match the criteria for what we consider
a disease an illness or even uh even a
condition right so what do we have with
something like MPD narcissistic
personality disorder you have a
description of a type of person and a
type of behavior and then we can say to
what extent an individual person's
behavior matches this stereotype
one of the ultimate ones is being being
a compulsive liar or mythomania it can
never be diagnosed because the whole
psychiatric establishment and
psychotherapeutic establishment is based
on the assumption that a therapist can
sit down with a client and that the
client will be honest with the therapist
the therapist makes no attempt to verify
the truth or accuracy of what the client
says it's really if we're being honest
the tradition is based on the Catholic
confession booth right well it's just
assumed the person system so
admission is for when my father went to
see his therapist there would be no way
for that therapist to judge the accuracy
of the statements already why would the
therapist even suspect that the
statements are a lie or misleading or
what-have-you
a therapist would never ask who I'm
certain this happened so my father went
in and talked to his therapist about his
email correspondence with me
the therapist doesn't read the emails
right the therapist doesn't talk to me
on skype and say look what really
happened and why so these things be very
easy to do it wouldn't you wouldn't have
to hire her detective or something but a
patient can go in to a therapist and
live for the whole session so you know
what what does the diagnosis mean any
[Music]
description of a psychiatric condition
to justify I think the more disturbing
side of it is to ask is the research
being done to help or not whoa
depression is an extreme example of this
is it helpful to people to be told that
their depression isn't merely sadness or
sorrow or a problem it isn't something
fleeting it isn't a rational response to
conditions in their life that are making
them unhappy with that it's an innate
condition that you're born with a
chemical imbalance in your brain
something already debunked in the 1980s
completely false marketing claim for
SSRI drugs depression is not a chemical
imbalance of the brain it's been proven
we have separate videos in that so in
that case you know I noticed you have
the word objective in them no object but
if that were true that would be
falsifiable right so the the original
hypothesis that depression is produced
by chemical imbalance in the brain that
it was specifically linked to serotonin
and closely linked chemicals that has
been disproven and we can test because
we can measure levels of serotonin in
the brain so it's not the case that
serotonin levels are too high or too low
with with people too bright these newer
transfers and a long series of other
chemicals once that idea became popular
and started making millions of dollars
there were other well maybe it's not
serotonin maybe it's this other
neurotransmitters this notice that and
one by one they've all been tested and
there's a lot there's a lot of money in
this area of research and none of them
have a food troop seriously in general
if there were truth to that
that would be falsifiable now the other
statement he made people can be mournful
sorrowful miserable with no objective
reason well right but they have
subjective reasons yeah so when I when I
was at the University of Toronto
it was incredibly unhappy and the period
of my being the most unhappy
which certainly could have been could
have been diagnosed as depression
doesn't matter was when I was in the
advanced course on Plato this is a 400
level of course the highest level of
philosophy or some play-doh and the
professor also seemed to be nearly
suicidal it was so terrible not none of
the other students did the reading I was
the only student who actually read the
books assigned on Plato this is I mean
my life has had so many dark period
since then I feel I feel bad saying this
is one of the darkest periods about it
was really really present now for you
for what you say ok objectively what's
bad about my life I have a home my sleep
I eat you know I have a shower
you know objectively what's depressing
about your life I'm not you know not in
a war zone or something there weren't a
you know obvious objective reasons for
me to be unhappy there hasn't been a
death in my family or some kind of
trauma but if anyone asked me what do
you and happy about I could very easily
articulate all of the reasons why I'm
happy including Canadian culture and
political conditions and the kind of
stuff you hear me talk about on this
youtube channel all the time but sure in
a very simple level the incredibly low
caliber of intellectual content in the
university and the crushing realization
that I had no opportunities after this
this is my last opportunity to get an
education for me there was going to be
no master's degree and no PhD and no
career another the hopelessness of my
whole life looking ahead these are
subjective reasons that completely
explain but but even then even if you
just met and looked at the professor for
that course you might be if you sat
there in the classroom and thought yeah
I see why this is depressing I see why
listening to this guy talk about the
flaws you play this way so my point is
you you left in a caveat there he said
people can be depressed with no
objective reason why there are
subjective reasons but then to leap to
an impossible to substantiate
falsifiable claim that is based on a a
biochemical imbalance this is not this
is not easily supported this is not
easily
but the people who can be diagnosed with
having major depressive disorder usually
Kent like they don't understand water so
I like in in weather even suicidal right
and you can explain the difference
between two people with the same
conditions so is Britain and
theoretically theoretically the other
people in the same class with me the
other people studying Plato and Xenophon
maybe they're all happy or some of them
are very happy right this is the point
so their their subjective experience in
the same course they may be completely
happy in theory they could have the same
conditions in their life in all other
ways but they don't have my expectations
or ambitions or they're just stupid I
mean nobody else in the class was
actually reading the book I know that
for a fact because it was a seminar
class okay we'll just say I heard enough
nobody else was even doing the assigned
readings Plato but they were happy I
guess or happier than me so sure this is
a difference it's a really motion that
makes it hard to feel so on this I
completely disagree
I really do disagree I think that
creating a category for medical
depression is not something you can
easily justify philosophically or
medically right so I mean if you
actually want to create a category that
we're talking about something other than
sadness other than misery you have to
tell me what those what those criteria
are and how they're how they're
measurable well anything that exists
scientifically anything that's
scientifically valid
measured and when we get into these
these types of claims that depression is
not sadness what is there that cannot be
just it's something other than sadness
yeah well so why what I mean I think we
don't know I don't have a prepared
statement what why should we presume
there's something other than sadness
because usually they make the same claim
that you know that's just a 15 minute
checklist that's just a verbal interview
there's no there's nothing - so nothing
consistent about turn in terms of also
the outcomes and response to the drugs
and so on it's a 15 minute interview how
do you feel sad how many days a week do
you feel so you can see you can look at
the checklist you can look there see if
look quick parallel because this is not
exclusively about depression this
discussion the checklist for
establishing that someone is a
psychopath Psychopaths and sociopaths
both have official tests in the United
States they are primarily used in
prisons it's just it's just a checklist
there's nothing scientific it's just
based on interviews you just ask them
how do you feel compassion in this
scenario in this hypothetical situation
how do you feel what happens and then
based on that based on that interview
you're diagnosed with a supposedly
innate condition so I mean what you know
what exists no it's character type it's
a type of person it's a type of behavior
and this is assigned to people in prison
based on me again you couldn't look at
the actual interview sheets what
questions they're asked and you or I
both probably if you just think about
those questions you could you could
choose to give answers that you know are
more likely to lead to the diagnosis or
it could choose to give answers that you
know would have ate it if you are so if
you are motivated to do so yeah so no I
you know what I mean depression recently
unnatural vegan talked about this
went in a 15-minute interview got
diagnosed with depression and then gone
on these drugs that was it so what is
the empirically verifiable basis for
depression or even major depressive
disorder it's it's pretty pathetic there
is no so again any other condition any
other condition let's talk about if you
tell me that diabetes is a real disease
we have a blood test for that we have
empirically verifiable tests we have the
easiest way to chest text for diabetes
is that we give you a very sugary drink
we give you something like sprite it's
no and then we measure the change in
your blood sugar every so many minutes
after you drink this this sprite and we
can tell okay one person has this
condition one person doesn't now what's
the other easy to do test someone who
does have diabetes responds differently
to the drugs to insulin and other
therapeutic treatment than someone who
does not have diabetes so if you give
the same drugs to two different people
one of whom is diabetic one who's not
you get dramatically different outcomes
okay if you give adderall to someone who
is diagnosed with attention deficit
disorder and someone who is not it has
exactly the same effects it's not
compensating for a chemical imbalance in
the brain if you give antidepressants to
the scene to two people one of whom is
diagnosed with major depression disorder
and one of them is not you get exactly
the same effects and the something I've
pointed out repeatedly here on YouTube
there's a split class of drugs here
there's SSRI drugs and ss-sorry drugs
SSRI or serotonin reuptake inhibitors
and SS re or serotonin uptake enhancers
they have opposite chemical effects of
the brain and if you give depressed
people these two drugs with opposite
chemical effects the outcome is the same
this is smoking gun evidence that this
is not a treatment for so this is this
is the kind of room we get into yes
being diabetic is a real you know is a
real medical condition
and it fits all these criteria so why
are we throwing away these criteria when
we try to establish at least
conceptually or philosophically that
depression is something different from
from sadness and misery but it but if so
then why should it be so easily to
reduce it to a single well that's that
is what I'm asking you though that how
can you make the leap to say in I mean
you know you started off by making a
leap saying there is a biochemical basis
for these ok physiological ok so why
[Music]
don't you think there's a reason to
assume no so kleptomania kleptomania is
stealing basically compulsive steal you
would satisfy your criteria where people
describe it consistently in the same way
so is there a biological basis
physiologically for kleptomania bulimia
people who want to be thin and he would
achieve weight loss through force
compulsively forcing themselves to vomit
you can you can have a huge mass of
interview data where people give similar
description to the same script did they
fit your criteria does that have a
biochemical or physiological basis but
you think well so using bulimia
tendencies into Mystic so you think
bulimia is is a condition more like
insulin resistance or no it's a
different kind of
so how how would how would that be
verified how would that be falsified how
would you actually test them
well we a lot of traits genes are not
necessarily deterministic elements
depends on what they define how you
react to the environment and this and
like the way you react to the
environment is a genetically determined
trait but not necessarily like the the
resulting like phenotype which is for
example PSD or this is not directly
determined by genes but the way you
reacted to those certain conditions this
is so is there any test for that so you
know tay-sachs disease sickle cell
anemia there are real genetic disorders
yet there they meet Karl Popper standard
of falsifiability the idea that you're
depressed because of your DNA the idea
that you have the zone of the solution
with the idea that you are a
kleptomaniac because of your DNA or the
idea that you're a bulimic because your
DNA I do not believe there is any test
for that I don't believe there's any
measurement which I'll talk about a
psychological problem here there are a
lot of traits of diseases which are
defined it this way like they're not
necessarily deterministic but but they
do define how your body reacts and how
you react to similar no no it's not
everywhere in psychology there's no
there's no genetic basis for kleptomania
you should
Bobo's theater I mean okay well why why
not kleptomania and why not bulimia or
what is the difference with those I take
your points you believe that genetics is
responsible for depression what evidence
could that be what does it come from
what's the falsifiable or testable basis
for them well can you just because you
then if someone else has the same
conditions and see how you read but you
also you're all approaching to be based
on excluding the subjective element no
which is everything else so if if I
become depressed because I'm taking a
bad course on player because I'm
disappointed with the quality of
university education is that genetic why
would that be a genetic difference to me
and the other people in class if one
young woman is obsessed with being thin
and then she takes the next step of that
obsession becoming bulimia why would
that be you know even if that if that is
your hypothesis it's fine some
hypotheses how would you test that I
bother this how would that be
falsifiable you're taking leaves here
that are not scientific
materialistic I've divided my shoes in
Emily wait okay look if I'm terrified of
spiders even that so this is
arachnophobia even that is impossible to
pin to genetics and there's a pretty
clear evolutionary reason to be afraid
of spiders by me how was even
hypothetically possible to test for a
genetic basis for depression kleptomania
bulimia if you subject to the same
conditions both similarly same way
and if H was ergodic twins react
differently and one of them becomes
depressed in the other not this is this
is one way you can you can find probably
so do you actually think the future is a
genetic cure for depression so what what
is the utility of the said because for
my mother said if you're you're wrong at
every stage analysis what would be the
advantage if I believe what you are
proposing course not as well as horse of
course of course
look dwarfism is an innate condition
you're born with a there are many many
different DNA forms that build orphism
the fact that someone is born a dwarf
may lead to a lot of frustration in
their life you know they're they're
physically small they're disabled they
need various forms of surgery very often
they have all kinds of health problems
they're not strong they probably much
more difficult for them to fall in love
and have a romantic life there are all
kinds of problems people with dwarfism
right so if you tell me
dwarfs have a higher rate of depression
or nobody would be surprised by that
okay but this does not establish a
genetic basis this is an impressive
reason to you that's right that's right
that's right well no no it's not because
even that it's your attitude towards it
you can introduce some other dwarf who's
that a great life and is very positive
and it tells you know you know you can
interview a particular Dewar for tells
you I felt lucky that I didn't have to
do football and baseball and do gym
class I really felt that I had a better
life and things have worked out fine for
me and I have a positive attitude
towards it even if it's one in a hundred
doesn't matter there will be some dwarf
out there who subjectively had
different attitude towards that
objective problem right so why I mean
again you know it's weird I feel you're
misrepresenting what my position is also
I feel like you're claiming that well as
you just put it that you said the
advantage of your position
Israel is recognizing a kind of physical
basis for why people have these
psychological conditions I mean if
someone is a compulsive liar if they're
responding to the stress in their life
or egoic difficulties or something by
one eye anymore to me it is not easy to
make that leap to oh well this guy is a
liar you know maybe he lies more because
he's ugly in some broad sense someone's
ugly and he always had to lie to women
to seduce them or something this is his
experience in life but I don't see a
leaf there saying okay he has a genetic
condition that causes compulsive lying
disorder or a genetic condition that
causes depression or genetic condition
that causes bulimia or kleptomania or
anything else and there's a huge huge
leap there and a real misunderstanding
of what it is we're talking about when
we're talking with subjective and
psychological problems now also the
other reason I was pushing this i was
interested ask you do you think gene
therapy is the cure solution do you
think the positive next step is going to
be genetic because I think you would
concede the point we all can see the
point you can improve these problems
philosophically by changing someone's
attitude or outlook the subjective
element of it right no of course but I
just say so the dwarf who is frustrated
say theoretically you have a patient who
comes in there were dwarf and they're
frustrated because they never got to
play football in baseball that
physically they've been excluded and in
this situation of the lives right and if
you can philosophically help them to
take a more positive attitude toward
their life and their aspirations
where you going to improve their life
let's say you get them a better job you
get them you actually improve their
living conditions so obviously this is
going to alleviate those problems but
there is nothing that corresponds to
this dwarfs depression in the way that
insulin corresponds to diabetes there is
no chemical imbalance to cure there's no
genetic just
there's nothing we can counteract you
see so again this is kind of confirming
my hypothesis and my approach on the
other side I think you're engaged in in
a sense a fallacy of composition because
you're looking at it as if the nature of
the problem is objective and the
solution is objective or as I'm saying
no no no no no the problem is subjective
the problem is simply put psychological
and as such it stands outside of these
kinds of questions about physical
disorders even when your physical state
is the cause of the depression in the
case of someone with dwarfism they may
be very direct that the dwarf just broke
up with his girlfriend and he's
depressed cuz he says it's so hard for
me to find a girlfriend because I'm a
dwarf I have this physical disability
and now I feel like I'm going to be
alone for ten years and it was never on
the football team I was never on the
baseball team did this he obviously his
physical disability is linked to his
depression for someone in a wheelchair
it might be someone could have other
examples like this but still I I don't
know why kids use it is a fallacy I
think in the strictest sense of the term
to then say this is a genetic you know
condition you know the dwarfism is a
genetic condition the physical but then
the attitude you take to it the
psychological suffering the perspective
on it the philosophical reaction to it
and why you feel sad or depressed or why
you develop a behavior like kleptomania
and why people don't clip the many as an
interesting question but you know why
you develop a behavior like bulimia I
think there are so many strange leaps of
therefore its here in just assuming as
you say that there's a biochemical or a
physiological basis for the sex that's
me that doesn't compute at all yeah
sure and then later do you think the
same applies with kicking can you make
the question more specific so what is
the question with the change of
perspective well I think that's probably
the best tool we've got even if it's
very ineffective you know I mean I think
I think the pure phobias are probably
the hardest for my approach to wrestling
if someone just they've always been
terrified of spiders they've always had
the thing instinctual reaction aspires
or it seems like innately they were just
born with more fear than other people or
someone is just in general a coward
someone who says very high levels of
fear where there's a difference on the
instinctual level innately that's
probably the weakest part of energy now
I don't think to me to my knowledge I
don't think that's the problem with PTSD
I don't think these are Amanda we're
already just very inclined to be feel
afraid or weak before they went to war
but so said I understand why you're
challenging with PTSD but maybe maybe
even the kind of pure phobias like that
of just having really exaggerated fear
that's even hard that's the hardest type
of disorder for me to address where it
does seem like it's something inborn in
an age and that it seems like it has a
biochemical or physiological basis but
even so if you have someone who's always
been afraid of snakes or someone's kind
of always been afraid of everything
snakes by any threat they've overreacted
to is the best way to cure that by
drugging them up by sedating them or
giving them drugs that will calm them
down you know I have done some reading
on this the answer seems to be known as
you know there are various forms of
therapy including the gradual exposure
of people to spiders and control
conditions where you build up a
cognitive familiar
it's it's actually it's similar in terms
of what we know about brain chemistry
similar to people learning to be
parachute jumpers that at first it's
terrifying to do a parachute jump but
you you you know build yourself up to it
you get you get to talk through a theory
you first do a small jump that a bigger
jump you start to trust the parachute
and the backpack you feel confident and
then you can do it no problem
that there is a similar kind of learning
curve and that people with arachnophobia
this has been done thousands and
thousands of times and scientific
conditions that they can gradually learn
to not be afraid of spiders or I guess I
guess the point is they can remain calm
when exposed to the perceived risk of a
spider that that's part of what's going
on so again even then I think that would
be the kind of condition where my
approach is the weakest because it
doesn't seem like there's a subjective
rule it doesn't seem like there's
something philosophical the the instinct
is so immediate you know the moment they
see us right or imagine a spider they're
terrified whereas these other conditions
there are more stages of cognition and
maintainer like if you go a shoplifting
to some extent you plan that in advance
you know you went to that store you're
at an empty bag just II put things in
there's you know there's a whole complex
there it's not an instant reaction and
get bulimia for most believe it becomes
a lifestyle so they really do plan their
day out they plan their diet they engage
in these behaviors but no I don't I
don't see any role in any of this for a
biochemical imbalance and I can even go
so far as to say so look what if
shoplifting is linked to vitamin D
deficiency look wouldn't that be
incredible what if you could cure
kleptomania by giving people more
vitamin D is that even conceivable to
you to me that's that sounds like a joke
is stand-up comic going back like you
know what if it's vitamin b12 something
really was good any of these conditions
it is inconceivable to me that they
could be improved so my father's
condition being a compulsive liar or
mythomania
so the him lying all the time could that
have possibly been improved through diet
or exercise now and again and the
exceptions from my perspective prove the
rule that like a dwarf if he's unhappy
because of his sex life and then you
actually improve his sex life you know
he has a new girlfriend he's happy sure
you know or you have a dwarf who wishes
he could play sports and miraculously
you give him a robot suit and he gets to
play football you know this is kind of
ridiculous but still something happens
in his life that actually cures okay
fine there is a physical basis you know
there's an objective basis to these
things in my case if I could go to a
better university and study Plato in a
better course or something you know you
know these these kind of things exist
but when they exist they're irrelevant I
mean it really is just like a
meaningless distraction from the
conversation or anything if we're
talking about depression or PTSD or or
believe you know these other things I
think it's I think it's a genial the
reason I push you on it so there's a
genuinely interesting case of you know
as we say in English the road to Hell
being paved with good intentions people
have really good intentions in saying
that there must be a physiological basis
for this
so why what is the word must mean there
what you're really saying is we can't
let ourselves consider the possibility
that there is no physiological basis
because if we do that would be
prejudicial against these people right
that would be judging your soul it would
be it would be insulting to the people
like no if we actually say no it's a
choice for you to be a bulimic or it's a
choice for you to be depressed you you
have a subjective reaction to this and
indeed in a really weird sense even
something as fast as being terrified of
spiders you know this is a behavior
you're in some sense indulging in you
know that a lot of these things like
well and you again I think that's the
weakest side I think the fear of spiders
because it's so immediate as opposed to
look you were feeling unhappy and
insecure or blah blah blah and you
decided to go out shoplifting for these
emotion
but you planned it you brought your bag
with the hole in the side you carried
out this complex behavior no it's it's
on you you're responsible for this
whether it's bulimia or you know that's
that's what you're avoiding by saying
there must be say you want to believe
there's a physiological or it's
sympathetic I think that's why it so in
most cases I think I think also well you
haven't actually read the interviews
that are used to establish a diagnosis
of the psychopath or being depressed I
think that would also explode your
assumption which it's a reasonable
assumption just wrong your assumption
that people give inconsistent answers to
those questions establishes a real
condition so you know we're talking
about shingles shingles is a very very
common health condition and there is a
very simple checklist where do you have
shingles you know there's a kind of
series of red spots that are in outline
shaped like a belt and like it's you
couldn't just ask the person okay so do
you have the spots and you establish
whether or not they had this disease and
above 99% of people in the United States
of America will get this is easy
at some point unless it's very very
common story easy to diagnose right but
if you ask someone in prison like
questions like do you ever feel guilt
and shame do you ever think about how
much your victims suffered after you
committed this crime
there are some people will give you the
self I'm a confident brash answer nah
man I don't feel if there were cultural
reasons for that and there were you know
there were kind of idiosyncratic reasons
that and you're gonna leap from this
kind of interview data which is
interesting you're gonna leap from this
interview data to saying like oh this
guy has like a biochemical problems
brain he's bringing the structure is
inherently different like he was born
different from other people like it
doesn't even occur to you he's
bullshitting because he's in a cage and
he's been forced to talk to a
psychiatrist you know so whether or not
it's [ __ ] that this is you deserve
yes so yet mostly
so with this discussion of arachnophobia
how it seems to be rewiring your brain
to think you just deal with feeling
frightened or with jumping out of an
airplane you get used to the idea there
seem to be like pathways that develop
and of course this is how we learn
language growing out there are pets that
develop in your brain I was gonna
mention one disorder seems to be
disordered thinking or thought patterns
um with depression it's it's thought
patterns you know negative thoughts or
you know just feelings of anxiety that
you can't seem to stop so like you I
understand what you're saying and I want
to say that too or I want to believe
that too that is just like this is a
choice in the case of bulimia it really
does seem like there is a physiological
basis and that they feel a sense of
control when they you know take control
of like their their ability to maintain
their weight you know like this is a
huge part of the interaction bulimia so
it's like I don't know how much of it is
physiological when you're talking about
these like pathways in the brain I don't
think it's biochemical and depression
but it's okay so physiological I gotta
split that into halves there's
physiological but clinically irrelevant
and there's physiological but clinically
relevant in philosophically Roman so
there's a condition I will not get the
latin name correct of people who were
addicted to pulling plucking the hair
out of their head so it has a long Latin
name that name means blow now that there
is a physiological basis to it which is
that apparently when you do this when
you pull a bit of hair out of your head
you your body releases I think it's
endorphins like there's a little bit of
pain the follicle you know was connected
to a nerve ending and you know there's
this there's this momentary sense of
stress and fear and pain but then
followed by some kind of calming release
like a parent like the science has been
done right
so there is some physiological basis to
the addiction that people get addicted
to the feeling of pulling hair out of
them right so that's wheel now is it
clinically relevant or is it
philosophically relevant because what
those people need what they do is get
coached through its grip like a life
coach as you can imagine the ultimate
cure is to get their life and their
miserable about something in their life
and they're acting out that stress by
plucking the hair so you can solve the
stress you can change their attitude you
can give them something else you know if
you want to you can get them addicted to
heroin or painkillers instead it's not
good move but like so there is a
physiological basis but it's almost like
an irrelevant distraction you see I feel
so good now the other thing you
mentioned briefly I was going to mention
this before so you know there is still
no evidence on a genetic basis for
language so this also you'll see why
there's this some people are gonna stop
posting this point giving any comments
what I mean is this in the past people
assumed when Koreans learnt English they
speak with a Korean accent for genetic
reasons you can see how like from a
naive perspective that seems like a
reasonable assumption right okay so
you're Korean but you still speak
English with his accents and your kids
also speak English for the Korean accent
so it seems genetic that there were
psychological and language language
motivations of ultimately tongue
movement issues or something that are
based and yet easy leap of influence to
make scientifically totally false it's
been totally disproved there was a ton
of research done in this right and in a
sense makes sense like as an influence
it seems logical right so you see to me
this is this is parallel where you have
a kind of complex behavioral problem
that it's similar to speaking with an
accent right it's something we perform
it's something to behave it's ultimately
an attention-getting disorder right why
do you act depressed the large parts get
attention to people you know why do you
try to look beautiful and behavin
pleaded with there are social elements
to this in terms of being perceived in
things man it's not it's not it's not
even as simple as a phobia or just
feeling that rises up in you it's
something you're exhibiting and
performing for the people and so on
right
it meets excuse to be a little bit too
easy it seems to me facile just with the
xito to link to sorry to leap to the
inference this has a physiological basis
like the Sheep of the tongue or the
mouth that's easy to assume Korean
people look different the shape of their
mouth looks different so it's easy to
think oh they have a Korean accent
because of the shape of their mouth
completely false
all right scientifically it's been
disproven it's easy to leap to the
assumption this person has PTSD has
certain kinds of cowardly behaviors to
be blunt
this person has certain kinds of
depressed behaviors therefore there's a
camp biochemical basis physiological
basis or genetic basis to me that's
that's easy to lead to but precisely
because it's so easy as to try a
challenging one why can't we measure it
you know ultimately even the tongue and
stuff you know this they most to deal
with x-rays where they x-ray a person's
face while they're speaking then you can
measure the thickness of the tongue and
the relations between the tongue of the
roof of the mouth these are tiny
measurements but there's something you
can measure there and write in just like
I said it's kind of a distraction once
in a while there is a physiological
basis so nauseous it's a form melt their
mouth cancer there some that done but
that's irrelevant to this discussion
right so welcome proves the rule because
of right okay that means it is mostly
but some sometimes like what I mean is
there are so many factors and genetic
it's very hard to establish many direct
causal link between any and one I felt
this was implicit
it was implicitly on so many diseases
are not genetic you can have a bullet
wound in your face that causes you
language problems you weren't born that
way it's not do you do but you still
have a disease just a little problem
yeah likewise you can have a disorder
that's that's inflicted you can have a
disability that's right is physiological
yes right that was I think that's
obvious yeah thank you even if I can't
establish a or like think think of any
possible experiments to link right but a
depression itself is not is not even
itemized alone I mean it's not even
specifiable
it can't be measured you know can't be
falsified okay was there a conclusion of
this video I don't know the problem is
not your genes the problem is you what
am I going to tell you right right okay
great thank you good good thank you for
reminding me the points for you right
so my opening salvo was to say
narcissistic personality disorder is a
type of behavior it's a type of
character it's like a pattern of
behaviors a type of person but is it a
disease no and thus is there a cure or
is there even treatment no is there a
you know biochemical disorder or
physiological basis no but it's it's a
pattern of behavior linked to a type of
character and I think we do identify
those patterns behavior with good reason
I think there's a good reason to
identify kleptomania and there's
treatments I think there's good reason
to identify arachnophobia and there's
treatment and I you know I think there
is there is a there is probably a basis
for even a tenth of
in a kind of sympathetic and helpful way
something like psychopathic Psychopaths
you whatever you say Sehgal psychopathic
personality disorder yes I comp with a
thank you you know you know in order to
help people in as much as you can help
people sure I think those things are or
justified but you know is it a real
thing is it a real disorder as dual
treatment that's that's a very different
philosophical question yeah I mean you
know wouldn't it be reassuring to think
you know my father lied all the time
there my whole youth my whole adulthood
that his constant lying was due to
something like vitamin D deficiency you
know some kind of disorder or
biochemical imbalance right and if I
don't believe that if I don't believe he
had a physiologically real or
genetically real problem that I instead
have to accept this is nobody's fault
but here's this is nobody's
responsibility but it is and for sure in
his life by the way it's real easy to
see how the coping mechanism developed
you know he became an actor or as a
young man he already got a girl pregnant
you know he will always had a I sex
drive and was trying to sleep with other
women he figured out at an early age
that the best way to get attention from
women is to lie to them um you know
lying to get ahead was a behavior that
that came up early in his life and
reinforcement he seems to have coped
with crisis and tragedy through lying to
himself and others if you learned early
on the power of of the lie and he got
involved with extreme political
ideologies like communism very young and
not not moderate communism communist
extremism whereas was mentioned at
various points he was afraid for his
life he thought he was gonna get killed
because he was rolling with such
extremists that's how he tells the story
you know so there were a lot of reasons
to lie and obviously the sense of
grandiosity give you an example
get if I told this on YouTube before but
you know he lied about my whole life he
lied about the idea that like at one
point the CIA were after him and the CIA
took him in for questioning and I
remember when I asked him later on so
I've done a lot of reading about the CIA
how they operate and you know I knew
that story just the way it was told just
didn't really make sense I was like you
know Barry if the CIA wanted you they
would have got you in those conditions
you know it's not like you weren't hard
to find you know I mean you weren't
living in a cave in the forest or
something like this doesn't make sense
oh right and also he was paying during
that time he was paying child support
it's so many kids so if you're the CIA
it's real easy to find someone who's
sending child support checks or Bank
pink wire transfers to child support so
you know he wasn't he wasn't so hidden
during that time it's like Sam
ever-important I really just pushed him
on his corner I said look you've told me
this story all your life the CIA never
really talked to you didn't even ever
and you know he admitted the point so in
that kind of lie why would a man lie to
his own son that he was interviewed by
the CIA
grandiosity and ego and there are there
are reasons there aren't they aren't
they aren't rational reasons there are
objectively real reasons but there's
subjectively real reasons and you can
see a kind of life story that that
breeds vigor and also what is the cure
is the cure to put him on
antidepressants or get him drugged up or
something you know I would say no I'd
say you know ultimately the Cure has to
be ethical or moral or philosophical
he went through his grave a complete
[ __ ] okay
we were talking about the cafe weather
morality is based on morality being
because of luck yeah this idea with
psychological problems substance abuse
disorders are wrapped up anyway yep
ultimately I have a hard time saying to
these people that it's your fault
because whatever conditions they were
raised in or whoever they got involved
with led to these substance abuse
problems I don't think it's an innate
you know many of these personality
disorders like your father's I mean I
don't know if it's beneficial to say
it's your fault or yeah you know you
can't change your pattern of Bagger you
can change your thoughts on this anyway
I just I just wonder how much of it is
luck and how much of it is the
conditions that you grew up I think
maybe that's a good good question to end
on though but you asked is it beneficial
to say this is your fault
before we were asking the question is is
it beneficial to say this is not your
fault like to say to someone who has
depression everyone he's spoken to a
psychiatrist or it's not you it's your
brain chemistry that's that's the
standard excuse and they hand out the
SSRI drugs they hand up the meds get you
doped up don't worry it's not well the
opposite is say it's you it's nobody
else but you like ultimately this
question of if you're gonna be you know
sad or happy it comes anyway if you're
gonna be honest or dishonest if you're
gonna be a kleptomaniac or a lot but I
said it's on you you know so yeah I mean
my message especially when you're within
the same language and culture group it's
very hard to talk to a lotion or
Cambodian person this bug when you have
a culture gap in a language it gets
really hard and I think that is a sense
even within the United States it's very
hard if you're if you're a black person
essays here
african-american and you're put in a
cage in prison and the prison
psychiatrist is an elderly white man
even though it's a smaller or cultural
gap very very hard for them to be
sincere and helpful advice or sympathy
or understanding you know across that
gap you can imagine how awful would be
for a you know a young black man in jail
be told by an elderly white psychiatrist
well when I was your age you know this
is really not gonna fly he's not gonna
work it off even with such a small
cultural gap and so for me to give
advice you know to a Cambodian kid or
something to some extent a situation
I've been in is but sure it's it's on
you any well I always I always actually
sympathize with what's the guy who's
trying to deal with the dsm-5 dsm sex
with trying to put together in a useful
sense what muhammad alluded to earlier
this idea of consistent responses from
an interview you know giving rise to
consistent diagnosis i think that's a
that's a laudable methodology you know
even if it's just for something like
kleptomania if you interview a thousand
people with kleptomania and ask them why
did you start doing this and how did you
feel when you think about it I think you
can come to useful insights and
observations about that those will also
be very culturally specific they're all
the time of the way um you know the
Japanese also brought a psychiatry
Japanese psychoanalysis and psychiatry
it's not the same as your Western
European North American you know people
don't do things for the same reasons
it's obvious it's not genetic it's
cultural you know these kinds of
disorders and behaviors and attention
you know it's it's very very different
culturally even things that I remember
reading article once is about you know
quote unquote the Oedipus complex yeah
there was another one about narcissus a
narcissistic personality disorder in
Japan being very very different from
your opens thing why would it be the
same you know yeah but I think that also
gives you the clue that this is not
biologically real yours if you believed
you know what mom was saying earlier if
you believe this is either of genetic
physiological or biochemical I
understand you're not getting a table
you were broadly suggesting that then it
must be the same for Japanese people and
for Europeans you know then it wouldn't
be culturally Kuroda but it wouldn't be
linked to your life experience in this
white zone or there be something
measurable or testable and falsifiable
you know in addition to those cultural
well subject but I think also it's
talking about subjective rather than
objective I guess for me the most
fundamental reason why I wanted to bunk
the approach you were giving earlier is
that I think it rests on the assumption
that problems must be objective to be
real and there it's not true like you
can have a man I've actually seen this
you could have a man with a beautiful
wife or a beautiful girlfriend so
objectively she's beautiful but he feels
she's not good enough for me that's real
to him it's it's subjective and you
don't you okay if you know look if you
get to know the guy you'll know why for
whatever reason that's not the kind of
woman Easter and it is completely
useless to tell him you're wrong
objectively she's beautiful you know
what I mean and but that's the whole
psychological realm you'd be wrong to
tell me and probably someone did you'd
be wrong to tell me how can you be
unhappy with this course at the
University of Toronto on the philosophy
of Plato objectively it's a good course
objectively it's a good university or
objectively the other students in the
class are happy why can't you be happy
you know now I can actually argue the
objective case may be objectively it's a
bad course but again no subjectively I'm
miserable about it that's the problem
in University of Victoria the quality of
education was too low I'm subjectively
yes there's an objective component I
mean you know yes ultimately these
things pertain to real people but I
think there's a it's a kind of scientism
it's a pseudo scientific attitude it's
taking science outside the boundaries
that was properly scientific and saying
your problem must be objective or else
it's not a real problem and no we need a
more sympathetic analytical and
constructive attitude towards saying
you're unhappy it's for subjective
reasons and what is subjective is
nevertheless in an important sense real
[Music]